To another episode of Between Sermons, I'm the host, Brent McQuay.
Get to be the lead pastor here at Disciples Church in Tinley Park, Illinois, if you're wondering where we're at when we're recording this.
And what we're doing here is we are continuing our conversation from Sunday, taking that monologue from the sermon, you know, a guy standing on a stage just talking at you and doing our best to turn that into real dialogue, a real conversation.
And so in order to have a conversation though, it can't just be me and a camera.
And so I got two other amazing people here with us today, as always.
the co-host extraordinaire.
Yes, I love the way you said that two amazing people because we are.
So amazing.
He's gone.
All right, that's all we have.
No.
Thank you for joining us, Pastor.
So it's my pleasure.
I think it was a gut thing just thinking about everything we have to talk about today.
It's really good to have both of you on the show.
I just figured it's like my wife and so it's like, well, you know, we need somebody got his intention.
All right.
No, no, he knows.
So are you a big fan of first Peter?
I love first Peter.
Well, then you are the perfect person for this conversation.
Yes.
Are you saying anybody who loves first Peter could be?
We would have a great time just talking about first Peter.
I agree.
First Peter is becoming a book that I am enjoying a lot.
I can't think of what my favorite book is.
But I'm enjoying first Peter.
I enjoy first Peter.
My favorite book of the Bible is always the one I'm reading right now.
That's not how about.
Yes.
Everyone I'm reading right now.
That's my favorite.
Man.
Yeah.
I love that.
So we are continuing the conversation with First Peter last week.
You opened the sermon series.
We're in the book, in the book, in the book.
And so this book we chose for this series is Peter, First Peter.
And I feel like it's such a timely book, a message, and that's what I love about God.
He's so on time.
Last week, we talked about just our hope in Christ.
And this week,
we get to talk about living as believers in this wretched place that we're in, wretched place.
So yeah, so tell us a little bit about yesterday.
What was the overarching message or summary before we dive into conversation?
Yeah, so we're in first Peter.
We're taking our time with chapter one.
We're going to go a little bit faster with the other chapters.
But chapter one,
There's this beautiful divide in verse 13 with the word therefore.
It's one of my favorite words in the Bible.
It's one of those where it's like anytime you see the word therefore, or for, or so that, or anything like that, you should be highlighting it, paying attention.
Because giving you meaning and purpose to whatever has been talked about.
What did they say that when the word therefore is there, you have to figure out what is therefore?
What's therefore is therefore?
That was clever.
That's clever.
The Bible school kind of phrasing for it.
So yeah, so the word therefore in verse 13 separates what he talks about in verses 1 through 12 and what he talks about in 13 through 25.
So 1 through 12 is all about this identity, who we are, that we are born again into a living hope with an inheritance waiting for us, secure in heaven by God's might and by his mercy.
It's like it's beautiful.
And he talks about he's addressing the the elect exiles, the dispersion, like it's like you are chosen by God and you are not, this is not your home, like, and he's going through
all of this stuff, and he talks about trials and all of that, and then he says, therefore.
So it's like, since you are this, since you've been born again to a living hope and inheritance, here's how you should live your life out.
And so the rest of chapter one, and really in a lot of ways, chapter one is almost like a summary of the entire book.
So he's gonna readdress a lot of these same issues in chapter two and chapter three and chapter four and chapter five.
But it's really like chapter one is like his like introduction his like here's what you need to know You are born again.
Therefore live like it And so yeah, so that's what we got to dive into yeah yesterday is probably a more practical message I think the the week before is more of like the hope that we hang on to yeah
It was very much the life bad, got good, hang on.
And then this week was more of like, okay, as you're hanging on, this is how you should be living your life.
And so we prepare our minds for action, we're holy in all of our conduct, and we love one another.
It really kind of breaks down to just those three simple ideas.
So call them simple almost with like a air quotes around it.
It's like, ain't nothing simple.
It's simple, doesn't necessarily mean it's easy.
Easy, right?
And it isn't always fun.
But it is, it is simply like, hey, prepare your mind for action.
There's something you're supposed to be doing with your faith.
So get ready so that you can do it.
You got to be holy in all of your conduct, not just some of it.
And all of this, your holiness really should cause you to love people.
It's all like, if you don't have love, then you're a hypocrite.
Like it's just, it's not, I don't know, it doesn't connect.
Yeah.
So, um, Pastor, so, so yesterday he started, Pastor Brent started with the,
the being so reminded.
And there was like three things that can distract you from being so reminded.
Which one did you feel like in your life?
I know this one was right.
What was a distraction for you where you was like, Oh, this is interfering with me being so reminded.
I think that two things.
One, I sometimes have more leisure time that I should.
And that means a lot of TV, right?
Just mindless crawling, a lot of screen time, I should say, which sometimes you just realize, oh my goodness, I've been at this for like three hours or four hours, you know, wherever.
So I think that that has definitely kept me from pursuing
other things that I should you know like reading the Bible more like I was into like reading a bunch of different books this year you know all the sudden kind of everything kind of stopped and I started just living just me time just me time is it bad is it pass away no but when me time becomes your only time but what but when mean when me time has become my drawing my mind okay
you know, then my mind is not ready for whatever God has, you know?
So it is not like I should never watch TV again.
It is just, I think it being more mindful about it, you know?
And so that's one, right.
And the other thing has been, we have been in a Lord in our season, right?
And I think the worry has definitely clouded my mind, you know, to the point that
The amount of times everyone has to come and be like, you just have to refocus.
You just have to think about the things of God.
God's got this, right?
Because my mind, instead of fully being connected to what God wants, tends to wander into the into the worry, right?
So I think that for me, those two things were coming very, very, very strongly when he was preaching and just saying, yeah, my mind is not ready for action.
My mind is ready for
And for another TV show to drown all of the all of the things.
And so I think that I have been coping in that way instead of just be fully surrendered in all of those areas to God so that I can be the effective person that he wants me to be today.
So I think that for me was those two things were like a slap slap.
I was like, okay, yes, no, I have to do something about this.
Yeah.
Life has been rough.
It's definitely been a hard season in the Quay household for just a lot of various reasons.
And so sometimes the distraction from all that is a godsend.
It's like we've got something else to think about or something else to process or to worry about.
I think the caution and this is where all of us are is when that becomes the crutch or that becomes the overall focus.
So I'm not going to deal with these things.
I'm only going to medicate myself.
Yeah, when you use it to numb yourself.
And so like that medication medication process for some people, it could be smoking weed.
It could be drinking, drinking alcohol.
It could be social media scrolling.
It could be not flicks binging.
It could be Amazon shopping.
Yeah, it could be just.
I mean, you don't have to point at me.
I was just saying.
I was agreeing.
Honestly, I can point at some of all those.
Like if we're really going to throw something out of the bus,
Look at Seoul's Amazon history.
Don't look at it.
Well, you know, like partying, all of the different things that you're using to just not be present in your reality.
I think that all of those things keep you from being sub-minded.
Yeah.
So, and I think that that's where I have been a little bit like I was doing brand the other day.
Like I just feel like I just want to hide.
I don't want people to see me, I don't want people to hear me, I don't want, I don't want, I don't want, no, no, no.
So I think that a lot of times I use those things to just be my blanket, you know, like I just, I don't want to know.
I'm just gonna be here and enjoy a show and live through their stories.
Those are great.
You know?
And just to bring, I don't know, clarity.
Like there are some things that are just unholy no matter what.
Yeah.
Like there's some things you just should not be doing because the Bible tells you not to be doing those things.
Then there's those things that like, is it a bad thing?
No.
But if you're using it in a bad way, or in an unhealthy way, then it becomes an issue.
So like, man, Friday, I looked at Seoul and I was like, Friday, I'm playing a video game.
Like, that's the goal for Friday.
I love it.
Because it was like, man, Thursday, we had an all day, like very intensely exhausting.
Yes.
We started the week and it was like,
One day after noon and he was texting me, I'm so tired.
And then on Tuesday, he comes home and he's just like, done.
Then on Wednesday, I literally texted him and I said, just come home.
He was like, I just, I just can't, I can't, I'm like, just come home.
I got my decide which group tonight, I need my group.
Oh my God.
Yeah, but it was one of those where, yeah, it was a very, it was a very rough, just long exhausting kind of week mentally.
And so, like I was like Friday, I'm on the couch with a controller in my hand.
I'm just gonna waste a day.
but it's Saturday.
Saturday we got back in it.
Saturday I'm working on sermon.
So having those breaks, having those moments when you're mentally exhausted, when the problems are just too much, absolutely, man, go get your hair done, go do your nails.
I don't know what the girl equivalent to playing video games is.
So shopping, spending money, eating good food.
So you're saying that we should totally do that.
OK, let's do it.
So using the guy example, so is it OK for me to spend
a huge chunk of time on Friday because we did end up going to the store and like taking care of the kids and doing other things.
But they like to eat three times a day.
What?
Man, who was that adulting was just for the meat people?
Like all the time.
Worrying about meals all the time.
No, that's the worst.
Can't you just feed yourself?
Anyways, yeah, so was it wrong or is it bad for me to spend a chunk of time on Friday playing video games?
No.
Is it wrong or is it bad for me to spend Monday through Sunday spending a huge chunk of time playing videos?
Yeah, like at that point, like I'm not so reminded.
I'm not ready for what God is doing.
And so yeah, that's where we got to find that like balance.
So like sometimes we're using something that's just sin, the drugs, the alcohol, like sin, like just bad, getting drunk, okay, I'll clarify.
However,
There are some things that we indulge in that are not necessarily bad, but the way we indulge in them becomes bad.
That when that becomes the, I need this, and I'm only gonna get this, and I'm not gonna read my Bible for three months, but I'm gonna be up to date on every Netflix show.
That's a problem.
We gotta be clear headed, sober minded, so that we're ready for action.
Don't live in a fog.
If you got too many browsers open, close the browser.
Okay, so I was just going to ask sober mindedness in in Peter is like being in a fog like it's both hands so like that that's and that's the thing that I wanted to get across like when you're reading it there are some groups of people that try and ignore the reference to sober
And they're like, well, he's not really talking about drugs and alcohol.
I was like, yeah, he is.
He totally is.
That's just not the only thing he's talking about.
And so there's a both hands.
So there is definitely a rebuke against using substances in a way that is now dulling your senses, dulling your mind.
So we would definitely equate that to drugs and alcohol.
However, it can also be distractions and living in this fog where you're not clear headed because you've got worry.
that's just affecting everything.
Or you've just got entertainment, just constant entertainment.
It's only about it.
And you say, whatever's going to make me happy in the moment, that's when I'm going to indulge in.
And so then you have a moment where the Holy Spirit's like, hey, why don't you do what the word says?
And you're like, oh, well, could you tell me what the word says first?
Because I haven't read the word in a really long time.
And it's because we've got we've got too many tabs open.
Like there's too many things going on.
And so when that
dilutes your ability to hear the voice of God, to read your scriptures, to be in prayer.
So even just being aware of your surroundings, you know, because sometimes you're so drawn into the things that you're doing that you don't realize what is happening with people next to you with, you know, like somebody else can come and they are in pain and you didn't even notice because you're just so focused and so dull in your thinking that you cannot
perceive what other people are going through.
And I think that that is also very damaging.
Yeah.
It was interesting because I feel like this morning, as I was, I was actually reading first Peter again, just inspired by being a disciples church member.
And I was like, read the Bible, not the Bible app.
I was like, no, I like the Bible app.
I know, I know.
I wanted to put a disclaimer.
I want to know.
Didn't you want to read the Bible app?
Wasn't it first Peter that was in the Bible app as well?
Was that like the verse of the day?
I think it was a verse.
It was Isaiah, but it was similar.
I feel like to the Peter, Peter quotes Isaiah.
Yeah.
So yeah, it was the same.
So I thought that it was like Peter, like on the Bible, like, Oh, no, it was something that Peter quoted.
I mean, something that Isaiah Peter quoted Isaiah.
So yes.
So I did start there with the Bible app and then I was like, let me just
Today, this morning was wonky, okay?
When we film, it's actually Monday.
There was a lockdown this morning.
Talk about fear being on all time.
I have a 12-year-old that goes to school close to the area where it was locked down and I'm like, Lord, should I?
David was asking me questions.
I really was like, I don't know.
I'm like, y'all like, you're just panicking.
And I felt like I was like,
get in my word.
And my default was to panic and be full of fear.
And then as soon as we dropped me in my off, I came back home, I got into first Peter and it was so comforting because it was like, you know, this place is not my home.
So how should I be responding as an alien?
As an exile.
As an exile of this world.
And so the first thing I felt like God free me of was like,
we don't have fear because our hope is in Christ.
So like God is sovereign.
There's nothing I could do by sitting here being in fear.
If something's gonna happen, it's gonna happen.
I'm just gonna have to trust the Holy Spirit.
But even though I was able to get to that place, how do you feel like believers?
Because there's a lot going on, you know, we had news of last week of what happened to Charlie Kirk.
There's just so much going on.
How do you feel like we can make first Peter applicable
to where we are living now in these times.
Because it's hard to be holy and always respond in a holy fashion when there's real things happening.
Yeah.
I think that that's the beauty of God's word.
That even though it wasn't written to you, it was written for you.
Yeah.
And so, yes, this text that we're in, first Peter, it was written
two Christians living in Turkey who are facing persecution.
They were facing dark times.
Like it wasn't even just because they were kind of on the outskirts.
So they weren't, they weren't dealing with as much of what Nero was doing as Peter actually ends up dealing with.
But they're still being persecuted.
They're still struggles in their faith.
They're still dark times around them.
They're still questions of like, man, we're like, we're, we're suffering there.
He goes on to talk about like husbands and wives and slaves and masters because it's like,
you might be working for somebody or married to somebody that isn't holding good godly standards.
How do you live in a world where all the people around you are evil and promoting evil?
And so like that's the context of first Peter.
But that sounds a lot like the context of 2025 in America and beyond.
Like it's the context of the world we live in is there's still
evil darkness.
There's still people that are suffering.
There's still people that are doing bad things.
And so us as believers, like what do we do in that place?
And so like when we say life bad, God, good, hang on.
Like that's the message of first Peter to these Christians living there.
That's also the message for us today.
Like, look, life is bad.
Like the world is dark.
Like we can't get away from that.
It's just the reality of the world that we live in.
And so what are you going to do?
Hang on.
Hang on to the living hope that you have.
Hang on to the fact that God has chosen you.
Hang on to the fact that, yes, this world is dark, but you're not part of this world.
You have another home that's waiting for you.
Like, hang on to the promises of God.
Hang on to the encouragement.
that Peter lays out with the, we are sprinkled with the blood of Christ.
That means we're under a new covenant that we are royal priesthood, that we have been cleansed of our sin, like hold on to the beauty of God and the scriptures and the mercy and the grace of God.
And so yeah, this whole situation in the world right now, it sucks, but we gotta hang on.
That's really the only choice.
And yeah, to address the Charlie Kirk situation,
I'm sure that we probably made some people upset on Sunday by not addressing it.
And I don't know that this podcast is going to make people feel better about us not addressing it.
If you go back through the 35 year history of our church, though we just we don't address political things.
Do I have opinions and feelings on this?
Absolutely.
Am I praying for
Everybody involved, absolutely 100%.
But as far as what I do on a stage, you won't see anything posted on my social media because I choose not to.
And I'm not, I don't criticize people that do.
I just view what I'm supposed to do.
And what I feel I'm supposed to do is make sure that our focus is on scripture and on Jesus.
And anything that could potentially distract or divide,
I guess to the best way, but I'm totally fine dividing people based on the word of God.
Like, hey, this is sin.
Don't do it.
I don't want to divide people over interpretations or political opinions or different things.
And so there are things that happen in the world that we just don't talk about from the stage because of that.
And it's just I want to make sure that when I'm preaching the gospel, the gospel is center stage, that when I stand on that stage and I talk about
anything that it's pointing people to Jesus.
And if that uses cultural references or anything, sure, cool, no problem.
But I try and stay away from anything personally, anything that's going to potentially distract.
So if somebody is sitting there and they have a different opinion of Charlie Kirk's messaging than I do, I don't want them thinking about Charlie Kirk in that moment or on their division.
They're I want them thinking about Jesus.
Yeah, and so let me give you Jesus.
I want you thinking about Peter's words.
Yeah, and so yeah, that was for us.
That's why we choose not to yeah Get into political spaces.
Yeah, no knocking churches that do I've got great friends that mandate they rededicate their entire service just to talk about it and it was probably fantastic for their people like yeah They probably had questions and concerns and fears and worries that were able to be addressed from scripture and
That's just, I'm not going to change a sermon based on an event.
And I think that for me personally, something that we need to understand is that the message of the Bible is aggressive.
It is not a coddly message.
You know, the Bible says it that, and I don't remember exactly like verbatim, the the Bible verse, but says that the message of the cross is foolishness for those who are
lost, you know, who are lost in sin.
But for those who have believed in the name of Jesus, it is the resurrection power.
It is understanding that, yeah, when you are talking 100% biblically, your message is not always going to land soft and pretty.
When you are telling people, hey, the things that you are engaging on
are against the will of God for your life.
When you have adopted those as your identity and as everything for you, you're gonna hear those words and you're gonna be against it, right?
It's like, well, you're dumb, you know?
But when you realize that for those of us who have received Christ, who have proclaimed as our Lord and Savior, this message
is a message of power.
It's a message of resurrection.
It's a message of salvation.
And some people that are not there, they won't understand it.
But our response should never be hate, and it should never be pointing fingers, and it should never be judgment.
We should lead with love.
We should live with trying to understand
where they are coming from and extend the grace that Jesus has for them.
Because the more I try to be hateful because I want you to know the truth, the more I might be putting a block for them to actually meet the loving God that cares about them.
So one day there's gonna be judgment.
That is true.
One day they're gonna either stand in front of God as their father or as their judge.
But on this side of earth, I'm gonna do everything that I can.
so that they can come to the father who loves them.
Yeah.
So, yeah.
No, that, and that, all of this, that's what I'm saying is so timely because it talks about in first Peter how God is our father and our joy.
And honestly, like, I don't think anybody needed me to address the situation yesterday.
I think they could read first Peter and be like, sounds like today.
It sounds like they're in the middle.
Yeah.
Like that, this sounds like today, like what we're giving you is something to hold on to today.
like regardless of what's going on.
So yeah, so are people going to be upset?
Sure.
Should we have let a prayer or something maybe?
We chose not to.
Yeah.
We stand by it.
It's not to endorse or to criticize anything.
It's just to say, hey, this is our purpose.
This is our focus.
This is what we're here to do.
And that's what we're going to keep doing.
Yeah.
It's going to keep preaching Jesus and going through Scripture.
I find that to be wise.
And so, remind it, like scripture, I just, yeah, in my opinion, just, and not just this incident, there's, there's going to be so many.
There's going to be more.
And there has been.
And this was more than just the just three major incidents.
Charlie's death, right?
Like it was a lot of other stuff happening at once.
Like it was a heavy week.
It was heavy.
And that's what I'm saying.
Like, I just felt that heaviness this morning.
And I actually took a moment, I asked God, I said, do you, how do you want me to be a voice in this generation?
Like, I don't wanna be silent either, but I don't want, I don't want, I don't know what to do.
I guess I'm in this weird place where I'm trying to figure out as a believer how to be a light.
And I feel like that's the place a lot of believers are in, especially if you want to please God.
It's like, how do I be a light
in 2025 because it's becoming very difficult.
Yeah.
And it's, man, it's such a, such a weird place to be in.
Cause it's, it's, there's some, some people that will jump on a bandwagon.
Yeah.
Just cause like, well, I know that if I talk about this thing right now, it's going to get clicks and it's going to, and it's like your motivation for this is, is like, I don't know.
It was actually a YouTube where I really like, uh, Mike winger,
uh... in uh... his video this this week he's like obviously you know this major event took place he's like i'm not going to talk about it today it's like i'm still formulating my thoughts he's like i know that the like the you tube thing to do would be to talk about it immediately then talk about it again the talk about and so you get the clicks and the views he's like i'm just not i'm not interested in that he's like i'll address it uh... when i feel like the holy spirit is giving me something that i need to say and and need to address about it and so like i heard that uh... like his on a video he did i think on friday and i was like you know it
Yeah.
Unless the Holy Spirit is telling me that I need to do this thing.
I'm not jumping on it just to jump on it.
Yeah.
And I think that to your point in how can you be a light?
You know, because I think that we all want to be a light.
You know, we all want to make sure that we are representing Christ well.
And I
I understand the sentiment of now, what I guess are like opposing, like now we all are Charlie Kirk, right?
I think that I understand the sentiment behind that.
I understand the sentiment of we are gonna be bold, we're gonna speak up, all of these things, but biblically we are supposed to be following Jesus.
Like I am, I'm not trying to be like another person.
I am not trying to take the space that somebody else has or do the same thing that somebody else did.
other than Jesus.
So what we need to do in order to be light, in order to be able to influence this world for good, is to go back to Scripture and do what it says.
And that's exactly what Peter said.
You have to be holy.
You have to be transformed from the inside.
And when the Holy Spirit's at work in you and is being transforming your thinking and your words and your actions and all of that, you're going to be a light.
people are going to realize there's something happening here.
You're going to be bald in the way that you speak because you're not just going to want to conform with everybody else.
You're not going to just say the same thing that somebody else said just because it sounds good or because it gave you the
the moment to be noticed or, you know, or wherever, like you are going to do what you feel that the Holy Spirit is leading you to do because you are being transformed by Him.
Because he is changing the way that you live, because he's changing the way that you think, because he's changing the way that you love, because he's changing the way that all of these things happen.
So you will engage at work and at home and at school differently, because you will show up differently being transformed by the Holy Spirit.
So I think that our light doesn't come from us.
because we cannot produce that kind of light.
Our light comes from Jesus.
So the closer that we are to Him, the closer that we are to His Word, the more that we are being obedient to the Word of God, the more that our light will shine.
Just because you cannot shine when you are reflecting Jesus into this world.
It's funny you're teasing chapter two now.
Look at me, look at me go, I'm in the future.
Peter's gonna use some Old Testament references that are talking about Jesus and he's gonna connect it to how we should be behaving and like part of within, within chapter two of first Peter, Peter makes this connection of like we're supposed to be like Jesus.
And so you're like, you're right on the money just a week early.
Yeah, come back.
So like this word holy and holiness is such a, I used to think it was such an old school word.
Be holy.
As I am holy.
And I don't know about you, but when I grew up, like I think in my mind, like if you're holy, you're wearing like long sleeves and now I know.
And like skirts go to the ground like, oh, she's holy.
Look at her.
She's going to her head.
She's holy.
So what does that look like for us now?
Let's make it plain.
Like what does holy look like?
I know, I love how Peter talked about not being your old self.
like you were crucified, all of that, your flesh was crucified, you are a new creature in Christ.
So what are some things, if a person is watching and they've never heard of the word holy, they're a new believer, what does that look like?
Yeah, so to be holy simply means to be set apart.
And so it's, I think the full definition is to be set apart for honorable use.
That's what it means to be holy.
And so when we say that we are to be holy as God is holy, that's the whole message of that Old Testament passage that Peter is referencing.
So he's holy, so we should be holy.
He's set apart.
He's different than the world.
Like when you look at what the world is all about and you look at what God's all about, it's like, oh, clearly there's a difference here.
And so it's, are you going to imitate?
Are you going to copy the word schematic we talked about?
Like there's a blueprint, there's a plan.
Are you following this old plan of, I'm gonna do the things that make me happy and gratify my flesh and make me feel good and all of this stuff that even if Jesus said don't do it, I'm still gonna do it because it feels nice.
Like that would be the old pattern.
The new pattern is imitate God, he's holy, so you should be holy.
He's set apart, he's different than everything else, so you should be set apart.
And so holiness for us, we go into more of it with how we love one another.
But at the base level of holiness, it's you're trying to be more like Jesus.
So what did Jesus do?
What did Jesus not do?
How did he talk to people?
How did he treat people?
Was Jesus going to be found in sin?
No, we're going to talk about it again next week.
He is sinless, the spotless Lamb of God.
how can we remove sin from our lives?
Like how do we keep from just going back to the same old stuff?
And so this is part of why it's like you need to be a part of a church, you need to be reading your Bible because you're like, you can't do what Jesus tells you to do if you don't know what Jesus told you to do.
And so like holiness for us is imitating God, it's doing the things that he tells us to do, not doing the things that he tells us not to do.
But to understand that, gotta be a part of like a church that's telling you in scripture that shows you.
And I think that in order to take that word seriously, you know, that we're holiness, you have to be okay with FOMO.
Like, you cannot... You're a fear of missing out.
You cannot long to fit in.
on everything and I know a lot of people that start coming to church and then they realize well now they are not invited me to the parties and now they are not invited me to this dinners and now they're not invited me so because you are still trying to fit in into your own life you are not fully committing to the things of God like nobody likes to hear like oh you're different right because we feel like hearing you're different it's like a
But I'm cool.
But I can have fun.
I am not that stuffy.
Stuff like that.
And I think that we have to embrace the fact that, yeah, we are going to be different.
Yeah, we're going to look different.
We're going to sound different.
Our way of thinking is going to be radical for some people.
When we say we are going to commit to purity until we get married, people are like, well,
Yeah, crazy.
You know, like, you know, like the whole, you will not drive a car unless you test drive it, right?
Stop by that.
Like, no, like we are saying not to this because there's a standard that got set for me to live.
So when we are not okay with standing out,
as the one that doesn't do anything, as the goody goody one, or the one that is not invited to the office party, or the one that is not invited to the dinner, the one that is not invited to the after, wherever.
When we are not okay with that, and we are trying to perform differently so that we can still fit in, we are not embracing holiness.
Holiness is being set apart, and because I am set apart, I am just different.
and I'm gonna act different, and I'm gonna speak different, and I'm gonna act in a way that people are gonna be like, are you for real?
Like when people are all being hateful and you're over here saying, well, but God loves us all, people are gonna look at you and be like, well, you are a different kind of special.
Yes, yes, and I am trying to just live a life that reflects the word of God.
So be okay with that.
Don't feel threatened when people are not inviting you or not
adding you and including you, or they look at you and be like, yeah, you used to come with us to these things, but I think that we're gonna pass this time.
Great.
I'm set apart.
Yeah.
At some point you have to decide what's more important to you.
Is pleasing God more important or is pleasing people more important?
Yeah.
And I don't think that you can always have both, both things.
Like there are some things that the world wants you to do.
that God is like, no.
And he's father and judge.
That's the hard thing that we got to get across.
He's like, yeah, he loves you, but he's also watching how you live.
And he's telling you, don't do that, do this.
And so, yeah, if that FOMO is really kicking in strong, you have to remind yourself, okay, is my life about making God happy or about making people happy?
Because I'm totally okay not making some people happy.
I'm not okay not making God happy.
Cause I'm totally like, we don't get invited to the neighbors parties anymore.
I think they got tired of us only drinking water.
I was like, we're being pleasant right now.
We're talking, but they're like, hey, you want it?
I got my water.
I'm good.
I think they just got tired of it.
Like we, so we, you know, they know your pastors.
Yeah.
They were like, y'all needs to be a different type of pastor.
The pastors in 2025 have why.
Right.
The funny thing is like, so if we were, we were like invited to stuff by like a neighbor, a couple doors down.
Uh, we were invited to some stuff for them.
and then slowly they stopped inviting us and then we got a new neighbor right next to us and they invited us at first and like the first time we showed up and everybody's drinking and and we're just having our water the guy was like okay I wish the blessing like that you know they are wonderful people they are wonderful people but it's just one of those that like I was like well we we have found our neighborhood like we're gonna just being you know I can chose houses and we come dinners and there's like
I guess not.
Okay.
Like, it's all good.
You need me to move over there.
I think that's sad.
I've been wanting everybody to move to Manhattan and nobody's going to Manhattan.
Yeah.
I did.
I did have a weird conversation with him every one time where I was inviting him to come over and he was like, yeah, you don't have any alcohol in your house.
He said that.
And I'm like, no, I mean, you can bring your own.
I'm like, I'm like, I don't, I don't, that's the best way to go.
And then I was like, no, it's just we haven't seen you guys in a while.
You should come over to the house and stuff.
And he's like, well, you got a cat too, don't you?
And I was like, hey, it's out on the water, Jake.
I can't be around the cat.
I'll be excuses.
All right, man.
No pressure.
No worries.
Yeah.
And then we will always be there for them if they ever need us.
But you have to be OK with those types of things, you know?
Yeah.
And you cannot take it personal and be like, oh, they don't like us anymore.
And that guy is not always going to feel nice.
Like, you're going to be moments that you're like, man,
Yeah.
It really puzzles out again.
But there's a price to be paid in order for you to live the life that God has called us to live.
Like if we are going to just be like everybody else, then we are not being liked.
Yeah.
And what you gain is worth so much more than what you lose.
So that inheritance.
So wait, this is going to be so off top because I do have another question.
Go for it.
I read about the crowns.
Oh, you're way off.
This isn't even Peter.
All the way quickly.
So we get crowns for our good behavior here on earth.
So what's really funny about that verse is some people all the time are like arguing and stuff and like I think the Bible does lay out this idea that there are rewards in heaven that it's not it's not even just
The reward is heaven.
It's also everybody that gets to heaven.
They're still like, well, you did all these things.
So like you get extra reward.
Like I think their scripture that backs that up.
However, it's, it's trumped by the last thing that happens is they all cast their crowns at the feet of Jesus.
Like this thing is like, well, I got this really fancy, like you get it for two seconds and then you see Jesus and you're like, nope.
You can have it.
Amen.
It's not about me.
It's about that.
And so it's like,
Yeah, so when people are always like debating like, so what do you think the rewards for like somebody like Peter is in heaven versus, you know, somebody that just like barely got in?
It's like, I think the guy that barely got in is like, I can't believe I'm in heaven right now.
Like, this is amazing.
And I think Peter is like, I can't believe I got it.
Exactly.
I was going to say like, I think that heaven is so incredible that like, everybody, an extra reward, like,
I don't know, man.
The verse is about the mansion in heaven.
So if my mansion is 10 bedrooms and your mansion is 12 bedrooms, we're still in heaven.
Who cares?
So I don't know.
And so some of that is symbolic in some of its imagery.
is their literal crowns or their literal mansions?
I don't know, man.
Let's see what we get there.
We'll see when we get to our book of Revelation in like 20 years.
I need the next 20 years to get my doctorate in Revelation because it gives me a headache.
But yeah, but the ultimate thing is they throw it down.
Yeah, I think that that's I think that a healthy way of viewing that, you know, because it is the only way to view that.
It is not about
us getting something.
The thing that we needed the most, Jesus already gave us, which is salvation.
Everything else, we should just be humble at the fact that one day we would be able to see him face to face.
What else do we need?
You know?
That's the first we need.
So what I wanted to highlight was that word fear because I was in the chapter and that is a
That's a tough word.
Your time as exiles, conduct ourselves with fear.
With fear.
So let's unpack that.
Because a lot of people will be like, because there are some people who take that to the street, like they are scared to do anything.
Like it's a real legitimate fear.
So let's unpack that for those.
Let's set some people free.
I think that the best solution for that is when you read the word fear in connection to fear of God,
If your mind reads terror, replace that with the word all.
Cause I think, I think the word all or I think you were about to honor.
Yeah.
Um, all honor, respect.
Any of those works because that's, that's the message that's getting across.
Like we have fear, not terror, not, I'm scared of God.
It's a, I recognize God's authority in my life.
And so I'm going to have awe and respect and honor for that position.
Sadly, we live in a time when people do have fear, terror of people in authority.
Police officer pulls you over and you're sweating.
But there should be this, OK, I respect this person.
It has the authority, has the right over what I'm doing.
So we should have a respect for that.
Sadly, we live in a time when that's not always the case.
But when it comes to God, I love that Peter starts that sentence with talking about he judges us Rightfully or or justly is that I forget the word that he uses I think it was I'd have to I'd have to pull up the the verse but he talks about impartial you're something impartially that's I think that's it He imparted he judges us impartially based on our deeds So yeah, that's how crowd she's like a harp in a crowd
So yeah, so when we come to him as judge, he is impartial.
He is just, he is all good.
He's loving and kind and gracious and merciful.
He's still all of those things as the judge.
So you don't have to go to him and be like, oh man, he's gonna throw the book at me even though I didn't know anything wrong.
Or like, oh man, he's corrupt and so he's gonna do something.
No, we don't go to him like that.
So there is nothing for you to fear.
Uh, but you should be looking at him and going, okay, he is the one who spoke the universe into existence.
He does have the power over life and death.
He is the one that sets the law and says, this is how I want you to behave.
This is how I want you to live.
And so we should look at that and say, yes, sir.
Yeah.
Like if that's what you want me to do, that's what I'm going to do.
Like I love my dad, but there's also a, a reference that I have an honor that I have for my father that when, when my dad calls me and says he needs something,
I live like 15 minutes down the road.
Like it doesn't matter what we had planned for the day.
It doesn't matter what we're doing.
It's like, no, my dad needs this.
Like my dad has asked for this.
I'm, I'm going to do it.
That's like at the mortal level, like the human level, how much more when you elevate that to, to God?
Yeah.
So yeah.
So that fear, if the, if you read the word fear and in your mind, you're thinking like sweating, anxious,
peeing your pants like kind of like like like terror like you're missing the language yeah what the language is really communicating and I think that's where society is in a way you know like I think that for a long time people were having that there's terror about that right you know so the lightning bolt right so so there's started to be like different messages of what God is loving that is loving that is love so now it kind of comes along to the
Now we don't fear God.
And I think that we have to come back to a happy medium where, yeah, you understand the love of God, but you also are living in the fear of God, where I understand that I am not over here doing whatever I want, but there's somebody that is judging over me, that is watching over me, that I'm supposed to be living this way.
I think that this world needs more of the fear of God.
john beveer's message for first love yeah right like uh... because he's talking to he was talking about his interview with uh... uh... after which which will fail your pastor was uh... with somebody that there's too many that you can't run which one it was that time uh... but he's talking with one of them and he talks about how like when did you stop loving god because you did all these sinful and admitted that they were sent for you admitted that you did them you're in prison right now for doing these horrible things like when did you stop loving god
looked at him like, that's a dumb question.
I never stopped loving God.
I still love God, but I stopped fearing him.
And so I was okay doing these things that I knew he didn't like because I love him.
He loves me.
It's okay.
And you justify bad behavior because, but he's loving.
And it's like, yeah, we don't want to overshadow the love and the mercy and the grace of God.
There is forgiveness for our sins.
But that isn't a free pass to keep on sitting.
Yeah, like it isn't like justification to say Paul even addresses it should we keep on sitting so the grace may abound all the more he's like that's a dumb question like he literally is like of course not You know and so we need to have that I guess that mindset when it comes to
the things of God when it comes to following Him that we are wanting to do the right thing simply because the God who saved us told us that we should be doing the right thing.
And I think for me, I am a very black and white person, especially with my faith.
I'm like, no, maybe a little more radical than a lot of people.
Just a little.
But like for me personally, I even get battered with the whole Jesus is my home boy.
And I'm like, no, no, no, like no, like no.
He's Jesus.
Like we are not.
He's your Lord.
He's your Savior.
He's your Messiah.
He's your Master.
Just because we have this beautiful opportunity to call God our Father.
And because we call him on a first name basis, right?
Like he's Jesus.
That doesn't mean that there's no reverence.
to his name.
Like, I am not gonna bring him to my plane.
Like, absolutely not.
And I think that even when we started losing those little things, it is so much easier for us to get into a rabbit hole of disrespecting or not fearing God.
as we should.
Yeah.
And I think that's that's Peter's message there, right?
That's why he draws our attention to father who judges.
Yeah.
Like he's he's the father and he's the judge.
And so we need to recognize both the love of the father, but also the fact that we have to stand before him and be held accountable to all of our deeds.
Like what did you do with the life that he gave you?
You're gonna be held accountable to it.
Yeah.
There's still grace.
There's still mercy.
There's still forgiveness.
There's still salvation.
However, like there's also there's a judgment that's coming.
Yeah, and it is not about being perfect.
You know, I think that none of us none of us are none of us will be until the moment that we are with him in our resurrected bodies.
But I think that it is a matter of just being mindful of how we are conducting ourselves and how we are representing him and how we are connecting with him.
You know, like the way that we speak about him, we will speak to him, you know, because we should be growing and even allowing that fear and that respect to come out of the love that we have for him.
And because we love him so much, because we understand the prize that he paid for us.
Like there is even so much more respect and honor that he deserves because I know where I was, right?
I know what he did for me.
I know that the change that has happened in my life
So like, he's God.
He's my God.
So there should be a fear and a reverence that I have for him that it is birthed out of not terror, but love and gratitude for everything that he has done.
Yeah.
And no, this is so good.
Because it just made me think about when I was in a season of sin.
And I remember justifying that season by saying, oh, but God knows that I've been like,
that I deserve to be happy.
And so as humans, our hearts are so sinful and wicked that we start to bring God a little bit to our heart.
Like God understands that I deserve to be happy too.
And who's gonna love me?
God's like, okay, and you need to get yourself together and follow scripture and ask as my daughter and not some
like the ratchet-ness in this world.
Or use like what I talk about on Sunday, like, well, I'm a work in progress.
Right.
OK, but that implies that there's progress.
Like, you can't claim you're a work in progress if you're not progressive.
Like, if you're not actually, like, some people are like, well, I'm working on it.
But are you?
Yeah.
Because like, sometimes I talk with people and like, well, you know, I know I got the sin issue, but I'm working on it.
It's OK. Tell me about that.
Tell you about what.
Well, you said you're working on it.
So you're trying to not do that.
What does that look like in your life?
So you've got a porn addiction.
Have you gotten an accountability partner?
Have you gotten an app that will actually monitor these things?
Have you left your phone somewhere that you're not going to be having access to it in private?
What steps have you taken to work on this thing?
They're like, oh, yeah, I didn't do any of that.
And it's like, OK, well, then tell me the steps you have.
Well, I feel really bad about it when I do it.
It's like, yeah, that's not, you're not, you're not working on it.
You're just regretting it.
Yeah.
And remorse is great regret.
It can motivate us to do something different, but have you really gotten to the point where you're working on it?
Or if you just accepted that this is a part of your life.
Yeah.
Cause when you're transformed, like you do feel broken when you, when you have that fear for God, like it just comes to a point where like,
I am like, this is heavy.
I feel broken.
I don't want to do this again because it's hurting my father.
Like, that's how you know like there has been some transformation that has taken place.
Cause it's like, I can't settle in this.
And it kind of goes with what Peter is saying, like as believers, be holy, you're not even from this world.
These things shouldn't even be affecting you.
Let me remind you who you are.
You know, that's kind of what it feels like to me, like a reminder of who I am as a believer.
You are set apart.
And so we need to live that way.
And all your conduct.
And I think there's something that Peter says in there, you know, just pick up.
be holy because I am holy.
He's quoting this that God is our standard of holiness.
So I think that a lot of people see that as a roadblock.
Like, well, I'm never going to be like God.
So try.
We're always going to be imperfect.
We are always going to have sin in our life.
We're always going to be struggle with something.
So just might as well just stop it.
And you can see it that way as a roadblock.
Or you can see it as an incentive.
You can see it as an inspiration.
How many of us have somebody that we admire, maybe at work or something?
You have this person that you're like, oh, they do this so well.
I'm just going to work so hard so that I can start doing my work as they do it.
Or like, I'm going to work so hard so that I learn as much as they know.
And all of these things, how much more we should do that with God?
So it is not that because he's all the way up here.
And I'm here.
That means, well, I'm never going to achieve it.
means that because he is my template and because he is the one that I wanna be like, that is gonna motivate me to be a little bit better.
I do a little bit more.
I try a little bit harder.
So instead of seeing it as a never achievable goal, you should see as an inspiration to, I wanna get there.
I wanna be like that.
I wanna be able to speak like you and look like you and talk like you.
And so don't see it as a negative.
See it as something that will propel you
Do something.
Yeah.
So it's perspective.
It is.
All right.
We got to land a plane.
We didn't get to talk about loving one another.
We did.
We talked about it.
Now you're going to land your plane.
That'd be part of your point.
You're telling me what might be my take away.
That would be my take away.
I didn't need to love it.
Just love one another.
No, that was a good pair of your mind.
Purify your heart.
and love one another.
And that is relevant.
Earnest Lee.
That means real.
Real love.
Earnest costs you something.
When I say I love my wife, but it's just words, she's looking at me like, thanks.
But when I say, hey, I know you're tired.
I love you.
So I'm going to do the thing that
you didn't want to have to do.
I'm going to wash the dishes, or I'm going to clean out the cat litter boxes, or when I sacrifice something, my time, my energy, my finances, then my love is earnest.
It's not just potential.
There you go.
We squeezed it in.
Okay, so yes, that wasn't your takeaway, but good.
Not my takeaway.
I already told everybody what my takeaway was on Sunday.
Okay, well, let's unpack it here.
I'm between ceremonies.
Reminos your takeaway.
Yes.
My heart is in a place of, I want to be holy in all my conduct, and I want to lead a church of people who have the same goal.
That holy in all of your conduct means that there's no exceptions to the rule.
Yeah.
So how you interact with people on Facebook, still holy.
How you talk to people at work, still holy.
How you raise your kids, still holy.
How you treat your wife when nobody's around, still holy.
What you're looking at on your phone when nobody can see it, still holy.
Yeah, when you get cut off in traffic, still holy.
And yeah, I think that that's where we're all a work in progress.
We want to make sure that there's still progress.
And so as holy as I am right now, I know that I need to be better.
I need to be more holy.
because he's perfect and I'm not.
So, trying to get to that place.
But I just really, man, my heart was just, I want more people around me that have the same mindset.
I think too many people, we've accepted areas of our lives where it's like, well, you know, we don't talk about that.
That's the area of my life.
It doesn't, you know, I'm really holy over here.
So we're just not gonna look in that direction.
It's like, no, let's really focus in on that word all.
So, that's my heart, that's my takeaway.
That's awesome.
That's my turn.
Look at that.
That's how that goes, right?
That's the side of the plane.
That's the plane.
My takeaway is just to be real.
I think that there's no time and no space for fake.
or phony in anything right now.
I think that we have to live one life and we cannot be split.
You know, we cannot be a little bit of this and a little bit of that.
You just have to be real, real in every area, in real in every space.
I think that that's what it is just really important to me is that no matter who will see me when or anything or if anybody will, because God always sees me,
that I am the same person no matter what, no matter what the situation, no matter what the atmosphere, no matter what, no matter what.
So I think that for me it's just being real, you know, to be able to say I am not changing according to who's around me.
Yeah, that's good.
And Peter uses that language a few times throughout the chapter, actually throughout the whole book, but just in that chapter one where he'll use like the word fully,
Or who's the word all.
There's a real heavy message to Peter where it's like, hey, don't live two lives.
That's good.
What about you?
We want your thick away, too.
So what part of the plane am I?
How do I balance the plane?
It's when the nose from the nose.
If you watch a plane land, it does like it's like.
kind of thing, where like the back tires hit and then the nose hit.
So you're the nose of the plane.
The nose of the plane.
OK, so with being the nose of the plane, I liked how Peter ended the scripture, the passage, and it talks about God work being the standard, like it lasts forever.
And it just reminds me of what we endure now and what people have endured in Bible days and what people will endure, even past this moment.
Understanding that God's word is the sander and it lasts forever.
Everything else will wither away.
Everything else will fade away.
The fads, the trends, what's relevant to culture, it will constantly change.
So don't get caught up.
in those things.
Think about what's eternal, which has got God's word and which is what he's commanded us to do with his children.
And so let that be your guide.
I think you call it Peter, the survival guide for Christians during hard times.
Yes.
So let that be let his word be your guide when you don't know how to respond to what's going on in the world.
Paul's be so reminded
and let God's word be the standard.
So that's my takeaway.
Beautiful.
And when you see people, you'll remember that at the end of the day, when all this world is over and we stand in front of God, there's nothing is going to matter.
It is not going to be about what political party you chose to follow or what ethnicity you are or anything.
The only question that will matter is, are you safe?
So that is what we are after, you know, helping people to learn about Jesus so that they can be saved.
Put your faith in trusting Him.
Yeah.
Well, let's wrap.
I hope you enjoyed this episode of Between Sermons.
Let us know.
It was kind of heavy to let us know if we could be praying with you if you have
more questions that we can address as we walk through Peter.
But I encourage you to listen to the last two messages from Peter.
They're so encouraging, so timely for what we are dealing with now in real life is applicable.
So I just encourage you to read first Peter as well and join us next week for chapter two.
We're diving in.
We're going to get through the whole thing.
That's going to be tough.
I think it's 24 versus 20 something versus, which is twice as long as what we've done the last two weeks.
It's Pastor Carlson on next week's episode because I'm going to call off if he is.
So Carlton's doing, so I'm doing chapter two.
PJ is doing chapter three.
Carlton is preaching chapter four, so he'll be on the podcast for whatever episode he's going.
No, just wait.
Anyway, it is so funny, because every single week, Brent comes out of his office after he is being studied for a little bit, and he goes, I am over time.
I'm like, I already knew it.
Like, you don't have to say that every single week.
That time is just.
You like, you need to get the time together, because we're moving to three services, people.
Come back so far.
That's why we put it two hours window.
It's time.
Yes, though.
But we love you guys.
And until next week,
Happy with you.
See you soon.